---
title: Day Two
date: 2019-01-26
author: cognitiaclaeves
tags: [reconstitute, blog v3, serverless blog]
draft: true
---

Revisiting my list of concerns for the application:

&#9989; Will I be able to clone a git-repo from a lambda function?
&#9989; Will I be able to figure out how to bundle dependencies
&#9989; Can I bundle all of pelican and its dependencies?
&#x25a2; Can I generate a single page using pelican?

So it looks like I was able to resolve most of my concerns on the first day.

The moment I went to add a route, however, I find myself feeling some kind of way about using too much boiler-plate code. I would rather be using a flask-like interface, which abstracts away some of the details.

So it's back to the drawing board. I google for some kind of serverless frameworks comparison, and find [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pj9vrE_UN4M).

After watching the video, I find that I've unwittingly chosen the serverless framework that I would have chosen had I watched the video first: I think serverless is ideal because I want something that can work with both Javascript and Python, and I've already figured out how to package the dependencies.

I think I recall some way to run Flask under serverless, so I google for that. I end up [here](https://medium.com/@Twistacz/flask-serverless-api-in-aws-lambda-the-easy-way-a445a8805028).

Once I made it past the differences in declaring the WSGI entry point, I was good to go:

	functions:
	  pelican:
	    handler: handler.main
	    # serverless entry point
	  app:
	    handler: wsgi.handler
	    # wsgi handler entry point
	    events:
	      - http: ANY /
	      - http: 'ANY {proxy+}'


<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTUzNTk0NzYwNiw4MTIxNDkxMTQsMTkxMz
M4NzA1MSwyMDM1MDI4ODczLC0zMzE1NjMyNTQsLTEyNjYxNTQx
OTksMjExMjE4MjEyOV19
-->
