---
title: Begin
date: 2019-01-20
author: cognitiaclaeves
tags: [reconstitute, blog v3, blog design, serverless blog]
draft: true
---

# New Project, New Blog

I'm starting a new blog. Or, that is to say, by the time this can be read, I will have started a new blog. In theory. ... If things go well, or if I am able to overcome the obstacles. I have tried blogging before, and I have tried starting projects outside of work before. So this project is a little ambitious for me.

## Motivation

My past failures are part of the motivation for creating a new kind of architecture for blogging. I know that it needs to be as humanly easy as possible to add new entries, or I just won't do it. I know that if I am in charge of creating anything new in the infrastructure of the blog, that I will get bogged down in the design and code of the infrastructure, and will end up not blogging. I know that I want to be able to blog anytime the inspiration hits, as I have shunned my muse far too many times for us to have a strong romance going.

Another part of the motivation for creating a new architecture for blogging is that I want to create my first open-source project out in the world that speaks to my design and coding skills. The blog will be a solution in itself, but also a record of potentially live demos that I can give for anything I build in AWS. That is, I want it to have access to any private resource I build in AWS, so that I can blog about a new thing I have done, and have the capability of including a demo right inside of the blog. I may want to re-use the blogging architecture to spin off a different kind of blog, and I want to make the repo available to anyone that wants to spin off a serverless blog in AWS.

Yet another part of the motivation is that I want to start actualizing cloud structures. I mean this in a specific way. About 5 years ago, I became obsessed with an idea: I was starting to see how different open source projects could be stacked together to build a solution, and that, with the free tier capability of AWS, it was becoming possible to start with an idea and engineer a thing, in record time, risking only the cost of resource usage. I have a big dream to do just that, and build something that everyone uses. I have a specific thing that I want to build. The dream seems huge. This blog is a stepping stone. A proof of concept of a bigger proof of concept. A plan within plans.

## Design

Design is a huge factor in actualizing cloud structures. There are many ways to do a thing. I want to be proficient in designing a thing that does something useful that can be prototyped and implemented with a minimal amount of effort. This can be done by reusing existing pieces. In this case, the site generation software, and the AWS services: amplify, lambda, s3, and maybe cloudfront / cloudflare.

I want the blog to be mostly static, and I want to save it all in S3. And I want to host it through S3 as well. There can be no servers or services to maintain, or I'll end up maintaining them instead of blogging. I intend to keep the number of components to a minimum as well -- the fewer components there are, the fewer components I will feel compelled to fix instead of blogging.

Right now there are only two planned components: an editor, which I plan on deploying through AWS Amplify, and a generator, which I plan on deploying as a lambda function. More components, if the architecture itself is considered: At least 2 S3 buckets, one for source, that will not be publicly exposed, and one for the site, which will. And maybe something in front of the site.

## Opensource Roots

I intend for this project to be built in the spirit of an open-source project. That is, I want to document the entire process I went through to actualize this blogging architecture -- I want it all out where someone can take my information, approaches, and software, and build on something that had already been created.

I started with a problem: I'm lazy. Personal time management is a mystery to me. I really want to GTD my life, but I seem unable to focus long enough to get it done. I manage in work environments, where the challenges I face tend to be more structured, but my personal organization is a mess, and projects like these -- a blogging platform I intend to use a living portfolio -- they would require time out of my personal-life hours.

My first step was to try to figure out what was already out there. My language of choice is python. I found a site-generator software called Pelican that looks like it will do the trick. At present moment, I'm a little stuck on the Amplify piece, as I essentially need a Javascript interface that can create/edit files, preferably in s3. I'm not very adept with Javascript, but I did find a python interface that looks like it's very close to what I want to do: Spoonbill.

The next thing I did was to try to figure out if I could leverage any existing technologies to get what I wanted. I looked into StackEdit, which looks like it can save files in Dropbox. IFTTT didn't have any formulas for pushing changed files in dropbox to S3, but Zapier seemed to offer such a thing as a premium service. However, StackEdit looks like it can use a gitlab repo as a workspace. If that's so, it may also be able to use a gitlab repo as a datastore. And if that's the case, I may be able to use commit hooks to identify which files change and need to be regenerated. This would probably mean a second lambda component that processed that hook and handed off to the generator, but it would also mean that I could probably get something working faster, if I can just use StackEdit as the front end.

This idea just occurred to me, just now. I have included it in the blog as a demonstration of the gravity of design decisions with actualizing cloud structures. In my book, there are far fewer moving parts if the solution can be made without building a UI of any kind. At least initially. This approach wouldn't address uploading images whose s3 URLs could then be pasted into the markdown, and I would really want a UI that could make that part of the work-flow, eventually. But maybe I could also script around that, temporarily.

## The Team

I have a team of three working on this, at present. One of us happens to work at AWS, so that's an awesome resource to have. Most of my experience is with Python, and with devops. Of ops that code and coders that op, I consider myself pretty close to right in the middle. The third has experience building and maintaining dockerized Flask apps. I met him when I reached out to him as a peer/consultant as he started his own business.

## Tech Alliances

**AWS** - I intend to build this in AWS. That's the whole point, really -- to have a blog that lives inside of the infrastructure of AWS.

**gitlab** - I take software alliances seriously. Gitlab's company culture stands for many things that are in alignment with my core values. So any source repos will live there.

**StackEdit** - At least initially, it makes sense to use StackEdit for saving the Markdown / source files, in order to postpone building the UI until later.

