---
title: Day Five
date: 2019-02-17
author: cognitiaclaeves
tags: [reconstitute, blog v3, serverless blog]
draft: true
---

Fifteen days have passed since I've looked at this project.

Since then, I've found a pretty neat way to log from a python app that uses journald and syslogd to push JSON to a log aggregator. I'd like to write about that later.

Yesterday, I went to start collecting all of my tax information. My old second-hand Mac froze up on me. I waited for half an hour for it to recover. ( I could move the pointer, but the applications didn't respond. ) I decided that life was too short for this -- that my time was worth more. I struggle with self-worth and spending-dysmorphic issues pretty frequently, so it was kind of a big deal to feel so strongly about this that it resulted in me actually purchasing an item for more than $2k. But when I hit Apple's site, after picking out some options that seemed favorable, I discovered that one of the delivery options was paying less than $10 for a courier to deliver it to my home within 2 hours on a Saturday morning. The last time I was in the Apple store, it looked like it would take longer than that just to get a rep to talk to me, so I found myself pressing the button in the fastest buying decision that I think I've ever made. So far, my only regret is not buying an extension cord for the power supply. I'm working through getting all of the things working on my new Air that I had working on my old Pro. Which brings me back here, to my ongoing project.

Time spent away from a project can be pretty enlightening. In particular, I find it to be a good opportunity to recognize that I missed documenting steps while figuring something out. In particular to this case, I didn't document how to set up the virtual environments that I use for the project.

Here on a fresh environment, I can now see that I don't even mention how to set up aws client or node, which are both needed for the serverless project. Sure, these are all outside of the scope of my project, but now that I'm the one retracing my steps, I add them into the README, as I figure them out.

Distraction: [This](https://medium.com/a-man-with-no-server/running-aws-lambda-and-api-gateway-locally-serverless-offline-3c64b3e54772) appears to be an interesting series involving unit tests for serverless and running it locally.


<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTU1NDA1MzgxNyw2MzEwOTk2MTgsLTIxMT
QwNTEzMjQsLTIwMDMyMTk2NDgsNzMwOTk4MTE2XX0=
-->
