---
title: Day One
date: 2019-01-24
author: cognitiaclaeves
tags: [reconstitute, blog v3, serverless blog]
draft: true
---

Yesterday, it occurred to me that I hadn't actually searched open-source projects for serverless blogs. This started to bother me, until I remembered that a main motivation for the project was to build something somewhat meaningful and interesting in the open source world. With that out of the way, I started prototyping the two services I had mapped out the other day.

When I do prototyping, I like to start by identifying the parts of a project that I'm least confident that I can get working, and then stub code around getting those things working. In this case, I've identified these things:

- I'm not sure if I'll be able to clone a git repo from lambda
	- This will require disk access from a serverless function, and while I can't imagine many programming languages working without access to some kind of file system, disk access is not something that comes to my mind when I think about serverless functions
	- Additionally, it will require access to git. I've had difficulties setting up this kind of structure before
- I'm unsure how to package dependencies for the code that I'm writing, though I've run across blog posts that lead me to believe that there is more than one way to do it
- I'm not sure if I can bundle all of pelican (the site-generator) in a lambda function -- it seems kind of heavy-weight for something serverless
- Even if I manage to bundle pelican, as a site-generation software, I'm unsure if I'll be able to generate a single page at a time 
	- I think being able to generate a single page at a time is kind of necessary for a permanent solution, as lambda has a definite time-out

I ran into an issue almost immediately. I had planned to use git to pull down a given repo as part of the workflow for publishing a new blog entry. It turns out this is quite a thing. There is a layer that will overlay git functionality over your lambda function, but there was so much controversy about doing this on stack-overflow, that I ended up looking for another solution.

I found it in [dulwich](https://www.dulwich.io/). Apparently, someone thought it would be a good use of time to rewrite git in python. While this kind of perplexes me, I guess I can't say too much about it, as it was exactly the use-case I was looking for.

I found a blog that walked me through [how to deploy a python-based serverless app with python dependencies](https://serverless.com/blog/serverless-python-packaging/) (note: If you want to use something like numpy, [check out layers instead](https://serverless.com/blog/publish-aws-lambda-layers-serverless-framework/)), and created a lambda function that returned a list of filenames after cloning a static repo. This proved to me that I was able to pull down a git repo in a lambda function. I had wanted to prove this before I got too far into the project. I had my doubts. I turned out to be right, but the issue was mitigated by the existence of dulwich.

Next, I repeated the process, this time bundling pelican and all of its dependencies into a lambda function. For this function, I had it return the version of pelican. This was another element of the workflow that I wanted to prove would work before getting too far into the project.

With those two things working, I pushed all my changes, sent a status update email to my team-mates, and called it a night.

<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbMTk2NzY1NzE4NCwxOTExOTE4MTc2LDE5MD
IxODE0NjgsODkzMTEzOTUyXX0=
-->
